docs/introduction/c_to_cpp.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Good practices in C++
parent: Introduction
nav_order: 3
---

# Good practices in modern C++ for the purposes of MRS

This guide will attempt to summarize good practices to use and bad practices to avoid when writing C++ code in the context of ROS, robotics and research.
The guide is mainly targeted at people who are coming to C++ from C or who are still using old-style C++ (e.g. raw pointers).

A list of the main tackled topics is:

 * [Avoid raw pointers, `new`, `malloc`, etc. like the devil.](#dynamic-memory-management)
 * [Take function parameters by constant referece (or constant copy in case of primitive types).](#function-parameters)
 * [Use the native multithreading and thread synchronization tools.](#thread-synchronization)
 * [ROS-related coding practices.](#ros-related-coding-practices)
 * [Other tips and remarks.](#other-tips-and-remarks)

## Dynamic memory management

In C, raw pointers are a crucial tool for many tasks, which include management of dynamic memory, passing around large data structures and data ownership management.
Many of these problems may be tackled using more focused tools in C++, significantly simplifying and clarifying the code and making it less error-prone.

### References
In many cases, pointers may be avoided altogether in C++ by using references, especially when passing function parameters (see the [next section](#function-parameters)).
However, references are useful in other cases as well.
Consider the following scenario, where you want to transform the fifth element of the container `cont`:
```
cont.at(102) = 10 + 3*cont.at(102) + 0.1*cont.at(102)*cont.at(102);
```
Here, the `at()` method of the `cont` object is called four times, which may be quite costly e.g. in the case of a linked-list, and is error-prone (a single typo in the index number can break this code).
A cleaner version may be obtained using references:
```
auto& cur_el = cont.at(102);
cur_el = 10 + 3*cur_el + 0.1*cur_el*cur_el;
```
The reference also avoids unnecessary copying of the container element (which is important if it's a large data structure).
This approach is often employed in [range-based for loops](##range-based-loops), so it's good to understand it well.

*Note:* Watch out for [dangling references](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/reference#Dangling_references) (references to variables which went out of scope)
These typically happen when returning a reference to a local variable from a function, which is a no-no.

### Smart pointers
For dynamic memory and data ownership management in modern C++ is done using the so-called *smart pointers* (and yes, they are pretty clever).
**You should not use the keywords `new` nor `delete` (and definitely not `malloc()` nor `free()`) in almost any case in modern C++!
This functionality is replaced by smart pointers, which are safer, more user-friendly and less error-prone.**
There are three types of smart pointers:

 * The [unique pointer](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/memory/unique_ptr) is the most basic smart pointer.
   It is the sole and only owner of the memory it points to (hence the name).
   The memory is allocated on construction of the `std::unique_ptr` object and freed at its destruction, so the user doesn't have to worry about calling `new` nor `delete` (and definitely not `malloc()` nor `free()`).
   The unique pointer is the most safe and efficient one, but it's quite restrictive as it cannot be copied or copy-constructed (that would break the unique ownership of its data).
 * The [shared pointer](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/memory/shared_ptr) is the most common smart pointer you will encounter.
   It works similarly as the unique pointer, but has a counter which is incremented at each copying of the pointer and decremented at each destructor call.
   This counter counts how many pointers point to the respective memory and when it reaches zero (the last `std::shared_ptr` pointing to this memory is destroyed), the memory is freed.
   The thread-safe incrementation/decrementation of the counter makes the `std::shared_ptr` a bit less efficient than the `std::unique_ptr`, but it can be freely copied, destroyed, shared between threads etc. (although synchronization is still required for accessing the data being pointed to!).
 * The [weak pointer](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/memory/weak_ptr) is a non-owning pointer to a memory.
   It neither allocates nor destroys memory and before the pointed-to memory may be used, it has to be *locked*, which temporarily converts it to a `std::shared_ptr`.
   The memory it points to is owned and allocated/deallocated by a different shared pointer (see the [example at cppreference](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/memory/weak_ptr#Example)).

For most of our applications, you will utilize only the shared pointers.
Note that ROS uses the [Boost implementation](https://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_75_0/libs/smart_ptr/doc/html/smart_ptr.html#shared_ptr) (`boost::shared_ptr`) instead of the standard library implementation for legacy reasons (this is fixed in ROS2).
Luckily, the Boost shared pointer works identically to the standard library.

When instantiating a `std::shared_ptr`, use the `std::make_shared<T>()` function, which takes the object `T`'s constructor parameters as arguments - e.g.:
```
class Bar
{
public:
  Bar(const int number, const std::string& text)
   : m_number(number), m_text(text)
  {};
private:
   int m_number;
   std::string m_text;
};
std::shared_ptr<Bar> obj_ptr = std::make_shared<Bar>(666, "foo");
```
Similarly for `std::unique_ptr` and `std::make_unique`.

## Function parameters

The rules of thumb when defining function parameters is:

  1. If you're taking a primitive type as a parameter (e.g. `int`, `float`, `bool` etc.), use a constant copy:
     ```
     bool foo(const int a, const float b);
     ```
  2. If you're taking a class/struct, use a constant reference:
     ```
     class Bar, Baz;
     Bar foo(const int a, const Baz& b);
     ```
  3. If you need to return multiple variables, there are several possibilities:
     ```
     std::tuple<bool, float> foo(const int a)
     {
       if (a > 0)
         return {true, 0.1*a};
       else
         return {false, a};
     }
     
     // preffered way since it's clearer what is input and what output
     // and all can be const, avoiding accidental modification
     const int a = 5;
     const auto [c, b] = foo(a);
     ```
     or
     ```
     bool foo(const int a, float& ret_b)
     {
       if (a > 0)
       {
         ret_b = 0.1*a;
         return true;
       }
       else
       {
         return false;
       }
     }
     
     // less elegant and less clear way, but valid
     const int a = 5;
     float b;
     const bool c = foo(a, b);
     ```
  4. If you want to modify a parameter passed to a function (e.g. use the function to update an object's value), use a reference, but make this clear (ideally by naming of the function and the parameters):
     ```
     void append_squared(std::vector<float>& to, const float new_val)
     {
       to.push_back(new_val*new_val);
     }
     ```

## Thread synchronization

If you have a single primitive-type variable which you want to access and modify from multiple threads in a thread-safe manner (e.g. some counter or a flag that a thread is running), use `std::atomic<T>`.

For thread synchronization where you want the thread to become inactive while waiting for another thread to release a resource, use `std::mutex` and `std::lock_guard`.

TODO: `std::condition_variable`

Do not use `volatile` (unless working with a microcontroller, where you really need it).
Note that `volatile` does *NOT* ensure any kind of thread safety!

TODO: explain why

## ROS-related coding practices
Be sure to check out the available ROS helpers in our [`mrs_lib` C++ library](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_lib/).
Namely, these helpers are good to use to improve code clarity and robustness:
 * [`ParamLoader`](https://ctu-mrs.github.io/mrs_lib/classmrs__lib_1_1ParamLoader.html): Loading of parameters from the `rosparam` server, checking of parameters being loaded correctly, automatic printing of the loaded values.
 * [`SubscribeHandler`](https://ctu-mrs.github.io/mrs_lib/classmrs__lib_1_1SubscribeHandler.html): Subscription to ROS topics with automatic printing when no messages were received for a specified timeout. Threadsafe blocking waiting (with timeout) for new messages or callbacks or flag-checking for new messages.
 * [`Transformer`](https://ctu-mrs.github.io/mrs_lib/classmrs__lib_1_1Transformer.html): ROS transformations wrapper for easier transformation lookup, one-time or repeated transformation of various types including handling of the special GPS UTM frame (specification of points in lat/lon coordinates).
 * [`ScopeTimer`](https://ctu-mrs.github.io/mrs_lib/classmrs__lib_1_1ScopeTimer.html): Simple scope-based profiling tool (like `tic-toc` and similar) for timing of duration of various processes.

## Other tips and remarks

 * Turn on `-Wall` and write your code to emit no warnings.
   The warnings are there to tell you about potential code smell, so do not ignore them.
 * Use `const` whenever possible.
   This way you will avoid accidentally modifying variables which are not supposed to be modified and enable the compiler to better optimize.
 * Shorten long typenames that you use repeatedly with the [`using` aliasing](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/type_alias) to improve code readability.
 * Learn and use the `gdb` debugger (see our short [introduction](https://ctu-mrs.github.io/docs/software/gdb.html)).
 * Learn to use the [C++ reference documentation](https://en.cppreference.com/) and consult it whenever you use a new thing from the standard library.
 * Use documentation in general.
   Do not guess what stuff does or how it's called.
   Find the documentation of whatever library you're working with, bookmark it, read it and use it.
   Also learn to use the search tool (the input field on the top-right) in Doxygen-generated pages.
   Documentation pages of the most often used libraries are:
   - roscpp: [https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/roscpp/html/](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/roscpp/html/)
   - tf2_ros: [https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/tf2_ros/html/c++/](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/tf2_ros/html/c++/)
   - OpenCV: [https://docs.opencv.org/4.2.0/](https://docs.opencv.org/4.2.0/)
   - PCL: [https://pointclouds.org/documentation/](https://pointclouds.org/documentation/)
   - `mrs_lib`: [https://ctu-mrs.github.io/mrs_lib/](https://ctu-mrs.github.io/mrs_lib/)

### Automatic type deduction
C++ is a typed language, meaning that the type of any variable in the program has to be known at compilation.
This has many advantages and enables very powerful compile-time sanitization and error-checking as well as performance improvements and optimizations, but the language can become extremely verbose even to the point of reduced readability (this is especially the case when using templates and the standard library).
Enter the [`auto` keyword](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/auto).

`auto` loosely translates to "dear Mr. compiler, please substitute this word with the appropriate deduced type during compilation".
For example, instead of writing the whole type of a `std::vector` iterator such as
```
const std::vector<float> cont = init_container();
for (std::vector<float>::const_iterator it = std::cbegin(cont); it != std::cend(cont); it++)
{
  // do stuff with it
}
```
you can simplify this code without loosing expressivity to 
```
const std::vector<float> cont = init_container();
for (auto it = std::cbegin(cont); it != std::cend(cont); it++)
{
  // do stuff with it
}
```
Note that `auto` should not be overused at the cost of code readability.

**A rule of thumb:**
If the typename can be automatically deduced by the compiler and it is long, too verbose and the type is clear from the context or variable naming, substitute it with `auto`.

### Range-based loops
Since C++11, the [range-based `for` loops](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/range-for) syntactic sugar is available.
Specifically, the following syntax is legal for any container that implements the `begin()` and `end()` methods according to the standard (e.g. `std::vector`, `std::forward_list`, `pcl::PointCloud`, `cv::Mat` etc.):
```
for (const auto& element : container)
{
  // do stuff with element
  if (element > 0)
    sum += element;
}
```
If you want to modify the elements, just drop the `const` keyword:
```
for (auto& element : container)
{
  // do stuff with element
  if (element > 0)
    element += offset;
}
```
I recommend using this syntax whenever applicable as it's more expressive and less verbose and error-prone than classic iteration or C++ iterator-based iteration.

**A rule of thumb:**

 * If you do not need to know the iterator inside the `for` loop and only need to access/modify the elements, use a range-based `for` loop:
   ```
   for (const auto& element : container)
   ```
 * If you need to use the iterator inside the loop body, use an iterator-based `for` loop:
   ```
   for (size_t it = 0; it < container.size(); it++)
   ```
   or
   ```
   // if you need to modify the elements, use std::begin() and std::end() instead
   for (auto it = std::cbegin(container); it != std::cend(container); it++)
   ```

Commit message:

updated suggested reading and c2c++ tutorial (added useful libraries)

docs/introduction/c_to_cpp.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Good practices in C++
parent: Introduction
nav_order: 3
---

# Good practices in modern C++ for the purposes of MRS

This guide will attempt to summarize good practices to use and bad practices to avoid when writing C++ code in the context of ROS, robotics and research.
The guide is mainly targeted at people who are coming to C++ from C or who are still using old-style C++ (e.g. raw pointers).

A list of the main tackled topics is:

 * [Some useful C++ libraries.](#useful-libraries)
 * [Avoid raw pointers, `new`, `malloc`, etc. like the devil.](#dynamic-memory-management)
 * [Take function parameters by constant referece (or constant copy in case of primitive types).](#function-parameters)
 * [Use the native multithreading and thread synchronization tools.](#thread-synchronization)
 * [ROS-related coding practices.](#ros-related-coding-practices)
 * [Other tips and remarks.](#other-tips-and-remarks)

## Useful libraries
Before implementing basically anything, **first check that a suitable implementation doesn't already exist** (this goes for scientific research as well - do your research before you start reinventing the wheel 😀)!
Typically, using an already existing and optimized implementation is not only easier and faster than implementing your own, but also the code will be faster and bug-free.
A list of useful C++ libraries that you might need with links to their documentation pages follows:

- **The standard C++ library:** Implements many useful algorithms, tools and utilities. Part of the C++ standard. Learn it and learn to use it!
 - [https://en.cppreference.com/w/](https://en.cppreference.com/w/)
- **roscpp:** The main ROS C++ API.
 - [https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/roscpp/html/](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/roscpp/html/)
- **tf2_ros:** The ROS tf2 library API, implementing coordinate transformations and related stuff.
 - [https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/tf2_ros/html/c++/](https://docs.ros.org/en/noetic/api/tf2_ros/html/c++/)
- **Eigen:** Linear algebra, basic geometry and other matrix-related stuff (ROS has compatible interfaces).
 - [https://eigen.tuxfamily.org/dox/index.html](https://eigen.tuxfamily.org/dox/index.html)
- **OpenCV:** Computer vision and image processing (ROS has compatible interfaces).
 - [https://docs.opencv.org/4.2.0/](https://docs.opencv.org/4.2.0/)
- **PCL:** Point cloud processing (ROS has compatible interfaces).
 - [https://pointclouds.org/documentation/](https://pointclouds.org/documentation/)
- **Boost:** General C++ library implementing *many* tools, algorithms and utilities (used internaly in ROS).
 - [https://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_71_0/](https://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_71_0/)
- **`mrs_lib`**: Our own MRS library implementing some algorithms (e.g. various Kalman filters), ROS wrappers (e.g. for parameter loading) and other utilities (e.g. a 3D geometry library).
 - [https://ctu-mrs.github.io/mrs_lib/](https://ctu-mrs.github.io/mrs_lib/)

Most of these libraries already come pre-installed with ROS or our UAV system and we use them, so we can help you in case you encounter any problems (don't be afraid to ask).

## Dynamic memory management

In C, raw pointers are a crucial tool for many tasks, which include management of dynamic memory, passing around large data structures and data ownership management.
Many of these problems may be tackled using more focused tools in C++, significantly simplifying and clarifying the code and making it less error-prone.

### References
In many cases, pointers may be avoided altogether in C++ by using references, especially when passing function parameters (see the [next section](#function-parameters)).
However, references are useful in other cases as well.
Consider the following scenario, where you want to transform the fifth element of the container `cont`:
```
cont.at(102) = 10 + 3*cont.at(102) + 0.1*cont.at(102)*cont.at(102);
```
Here, the `at()` method of the `cont` object is called four times, which may be quite costly e.g. in the case of a linked-list, and is error-prone (a single typo in the index number can break this code).
A cleaner version may be obtained using references:
```
auto& cur_el = cont.at(102);
cur_el = 10 + 3*cur_el + 0.1*cur_el*cur_el;
```
The reference also avoids unnecessary copying of the container element (which is important if it's a large data structure).
This approach is often employed in [range-based for loops](##range-based-loops), so it's good to understand it well.

*Note:* Watch out for [dangling references](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/reference#Dangling_references) (references to variables which went out of scope)
These typically happen when returning a reference to a local variable from a function, which is a no-no.

### Smart pointers
For dynamic memory and data ownership management in modern C++ is done using the so-called *smart pointers* (and yes, they are pretty clever).
**You should not use the keywords `new` nor `delete` (and definitely not `malloc()` nor `free()`) in almost any case in modern C++!
This functionality is replaced by smart pointers, which are safer, more user-friendly and less error-prone.**
There are three types of smart pointers:

 * The [unique pointer](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/memory/unique_ptr) is the most basic smart pointer.
   It is the sole and only owner of the memory it points to (hence the name).
   The memory is allocated on construction of the `std::unique_ptr` object and freed at its destruction, so the user doesn't have to worry about calling `new` nor `delete` (and definitely not `malloc()` nor `free()`).
   The unique pointer is the most safe and efficient one, but it's quite restrictive as it cannot be copied or copy-constructed (that would break the unique ownership of its data).
 * The [shared pointer](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/memory/shared_ptr) is the most common smart pointer you will encounter.
   It works similarly as the unique pointer, but has a counter which is incremented at each copying of the pointer and decremented at each destructor call.
   This counter counts how many pointers point to the respective memory and when it reaches zero (the last `std::shared_ptr` pointing to this memory is destroyed), the memory is freed.
   The thread-safe incrementation/decrementation of the counter makes the `std::shared_ptr` a bit less efficient than the `std::unique_ptr`, but it can be freely copied, destroyed, shared between threads etc. (although synchronization is still required for accessing the data being pointed to!).
 * The [weak pointer](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/memory/weak_ptr) is a non-owning pointer to a memory.
   It neither allocates nor destroys memory and before the pointed-to memory may be used, it has to be *locked*, which temporarily converts it to a `std::shared_ptr`.
   The memory it points to is owned and allocated/deallocated by a different shared pointer (see the [example at cppreference](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/memory/weak_ptr#Example)).

For most of our applications, you will utilize only the shared pointers.
Note that ROS uses the [Boost implementation](https://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_75_0/libs/smart_ptr/doc/html/smart_ptr.html#shared_ptr) (`boost::shared_ptr`) instead of the standard library implementation for legacy reasons (this is fixed in ROS2).
Luckily, the Boost shared pointer works identically to the standard library.

When instantiating a `std::shared_ptr`, use the `std::make_shared<T>()` function, which takes the object `T`'s constructor parameters as arguments - e.g.:
```
class Bar
{
public:
  Bar(const int number, const std::string& text)
   : m_number(number), m_text(text)
  {};
private:
   int m_number;
   std::string m_text;
};
std::shared_ptr<Bar> obj_ptr = std::make_shared<Bar>(666, "foo");
```
Similarly for `std::unique_ptr` and `std::make_unique`.

## Function parameters

The rules of thumb when defining function parameters is:

  1. If you're taking a primitive type as a parameter (e.g. `int`, `float`, `bool` etc.), use a constant copy:
     ```
     bool foo(const int a, const float b);
     ```
  2. If you're taking a class/struct, use a constant reference:
     ```
     class Bar, Baz;
     Bar foo(const int a, const Baz& b);
     ```
  3. If you need to return multiple variables, there are several possibilities:
     ```
     std::tuple<bool, float> foo(const int a)
     {
       if (a > 0)
         return {true, 0.1*a};
       else
         return {false, a};
     }
     
     // preffered way since it's clearer what is input and what output
     // and all can be const, avoiding accidental modification
     const int a = 5;
     const auto [c, b] = foo(a);
     ```
     or
     ```
     bool foo(const int a, float& ret_b)
     {
       if (a > 0)
       {
         ret_b = 0.1*a;
         return true;
       }
       else
       {
         return false;
       }
     }
     
     // less elegant and less clear way, but valid
     const int a = 5;
     float b;
     const bool c = foo(a, b);
     ```
  4. If you want to modify a parameter passed to a function (e.g. use the function to update an object's value), use a reference, but make this clear (ideally by naming of the function and the parameters):
     ```
     void append_squared(std::vector<float>& to, const float new_val)
     {
       to.push_back(new_val*new_val);
     }
     ```

## Thread synchronization

If you have a single primitive-type variable which you want to access and modify from multiple threads in a thread-safe manner (e.g. some counter or a flag that a thread is running), use `std::atomic<T>`.

For thread synchronization where you want the thread to become inactive while waiting for another thread to release a resource, use `std::mutex` and `std::lock_guard`.

TODO: `std::condition_variable`

Do not use `volatile` (unless working with a microcontroller, where you really need it).
Note that `volatile` does *NOT* ensure any kind of thread safety!

TODO: explain why

## ROS-related coding practices
Be sure to check out the available ROS helpers in our [`mrs_lib` C++ library](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_lib/).
Namely, these helpers are good to use to improve code clarity and robustness:
 * [`ParamLoader`](https://ctu-mrs.github.io/mrs_lib/classmrs__lib_1_1ParamLoader.html): Loading of parameters from the `rosparam` server, checking of parameters being loaded correctly, automatic printing of the loaded values.
 * [`SubscribeHandler`](https://ctu-mrs.github.io/mrs_lib/classmrs__lib_1_1SubscribeHandler.html): Subscription to ROS topics with automatic printing when no messages were received for a specified timeout. Threadsafe blocking waiting (with timeout) for new messages or callbacks or flag-checking for new messages.
 * [`Transformer`](https://ctu-mrs.github.io/mrs_lib/classmrs__lib_1_1Transformer.html): ROS transformations wrapper for easier transformation lookup, one-time or repeated transformation of various types including handling of the special GPS UTM frame (specification of points in lat/lon coordinates).
 * [`ScopeTimer`](https://ctu-mrs.github.io/mrs_lib/classmrs__lib_1_1ScopeTimer.html): Simple scope-based profiling tool (like `tic-toc` and similar) for timing of duration of various processes.

## Other tips and remarks

 * Turn on `-Wall` and write your code to emit no warnings.
   The warnings are there to tell you about potential code smell, so do not ignore them.
 * Use `const` whenever possible.
   This way you will avoid accidentally modifying variables which are not supposed to be modified and enable the compiler to better optimize.
 * Shorten long typenames that you use repeatedly with the [`using` aliasing](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/type_alias) to improve code readability.
 * Learn and use the `gdb` debugger (see our short [introduction](https://ctu-mrs.github.io/docs/software/gdb.html)).
 * Learn to use the [C++ reference documentation](https://en.cppreference.com/) and consult it whenever you use a new thing from the standard library.
 * Use documentation in general.
   Do not guess what stuff does or how it's called.
   Find the documentation of whatever library you're working with, bookmark it, read it and use it.
   Also learn to use the search tool (the input field on the top-right) in Doxygen-generated pages.

### Automatic type deduction
C++ is a typed language, meaning that the type of any variable in the program has to be known at compilation.
This has many advantages and enables very powerful compile-time sanitization and error-checking as well as performance improvements and optimizations, but the language can become extremely verbose even to the point of reduced readability (this is especially the case when using templates and the standard library).
Enter the [`auto` keyword](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/auto).

`auto` loosely translates to "dear Mr. compiler, please substitute this word with the appropriate deduced type during compilation".
For example, instead of writing the whole type of a `std::vector` iterator such as
```
const std::vector<float> cont = init_container();
for (std::vector<float>::const_iterator it = std::cbegin(cont); it != std::cend(cont); it++)
{
  // do stuff with it
}
```
you can simplify this code without loosing expressivity to 
```
const std::vector<float> cont = init_container();
for (auto it = std::cbegin(cont); it != std::cend(cont); it++)
{
  // do stuff with it
}
```
Note that `auto` should not be overused at the cost of code readability.

**A rule of thumb:**
If the typename can be automatically deduced by the compiler and it is long, too verbose and the type is clear from the context or variable naming, substitute it with `auto`.

### Range-based loops
Since C++11, the [range-based `for` loops](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/range-for) syntactic sugar is available.
Specifically, the following syntax is legal for any container that implements the `begin()` and `end()` methods according to the standard (e.g. `std::vector`, `std::forward_list`, `pcl::PointCloud`, `cv::Mat` etc.):
```
for (const auto& element : container)
{
  // do stuff with element
  if (element > 0)
    sum += element;
}
```
If you want to modify the elements, just drop the `const` keyword:
```
for (auto& element : container)
{
  // do stuff with element
  if (element > 0)
    element += offset;
}
```
I recommend using this syntax whenever applicable as it's more expressive and less verbose and error-prone than classic iteration or C++ iterator-based iteration.

**A rule of thumb:**

 * If you do not need to know the iterator inside the `for` loop and only need to access/modify the elements, use a range-based `for` loop:
   ```
   for (const auto& element : container)
   ```
 * If you need to use the iterator inside the loop body, use an iterator-based `for` loop:
   ```
   for (size_t it = 0; it < container.size(); it++)
   ```
   or
   ```
   // if you need to modify the elements, use std::begin() and std::end() instead
   for (auto it = std::cbegin(container); it != std::cend(container); it++)
   ```
