docs/60-simulations/01-gazebo/real_world_elevation.md, before:

---
title: How to create a real world elevation map in Gazebo
---

:::warning
This page is describing the upcoming ROS2 version of the MRS UAV System (however, it may be still outdated). If you are looking for ROS1 version of the docs, follow to https://ctu-mrs.github.io/docs/1.5.0/introduction/.
:::

# How to create a real world elevation map in Gazebo

We will create a 3D model in [Blender](https://www.blender.org/download/) using
[BlenderGIS plugin](https://github.com/domlysz/BlenderGIS) and elevation data from
[opentopography.org](https://opentopography.org/).
We will then export the model as a `.dae` file and a texture as `.tif` to be used in Gazebo.
Finally, we will create a simple Gazebo `.world` to view the created model.

## 1. Getting Blender and the plugin

[Download and install Blender](https://www.blender.org/download/)

[Download BlenderGIS plugin as zip](https://github.com/domlysz/BlenderGIS/archive/refs/heads/master.zip)

In Blender, go to `Edit` -> `Preferences` -> `Add-ons` -> `Install` and select the downloaded zip file

![](fig/real-world-elevation/blender-preferences.png)

The plugin should now appear in the addons list. Make sure it's enabled (checkbox is checked).

![](fig/real-world-elevation/plugin.png)

## 2. Creating the textured plane

Once the plugin is installed, you should see the **GIS** button available. Press it, then select `Web geodata` -> `Basemap`

![](fig/real-world-elevation/basemap.png)

You can change the source (for example to use Bing maps) if you want. Press `OK`.

The 2D map view should appear. You can drag the map and zoom to go the location you want, or you can press `G` to then enter a specific location.

![](fig/real-world-elevation/goto.png)

Once you're satisfied with the location and zoom level, press `E` to create a new plane with the texture applied to it.

![](fig/real-world-elevation/textured-plane.png)

## 3. Adding elevation data

To import the elevation data, we use OpenTopography API. We will need an API key to feed into the plugin. It's free.

Got to [OpenTopography](https://portal.opentopography.org/login?redirect=%2FlidarAuthorizationInfo%3Fs%3Dapi)

Create an account. Select Affiliation: **Academia**, Organization: **Czech Technical University in Prague**.

Then login with the created account. You should see the API key [here](https://portal.opentopography.org/lidarAuthorizationInfo?s=api)

Now in Blender, **select the plane object we've created.**

Go to `GIS` -> `Web geodata` -> `Get elevation (SRTM)`. Enter the API key and press `OK`. This takes some time.
![](fig/real-world-elevation/elevation.png)

## 4. Adjusting the elevation

Usually we want to adjust our map model so that its origin is at zero. To do that we:

Apply the modifiers: select the plane object, press `Ctrl+A` and select `Apply` -> `Visual Geometry to Mesh`
![](fig/real-world-elevation/apply-modifiers.png)

Now, because the plugin is creating a plane based on the screen ratio, the plane will not be a perfect rectangle. What we can do is:

- Select the plane
- Go to the edit mode
- Select the top view
- Select a vertex that is the closest one to the origin
  ![](fig/real-world-elevation/closest-point.png)
- Now we can see its global coordinates. We want to move all of our vertices so that this point moves to the origin.
  ![](fig/real-world-elevation/location.png)
- To do that we can copy the `X` position, then select **all vertices** (`a`), then subtract the copied value from the median's `X`:
  ![](fig/real-world-elevation/move-all-X.png)
- Repeat the same for the `Y` and `Z`.

## 5. Exporting the model

We export our model as Collada `.dae` file. Select the plane object, go to `File` -> `Export` -> `Collada (.dae)`.

![](fig/real-world-elevation/export.png)

Check `Selection Only`, check `Global Orientation` -> `Apply`, and select `X` as forward axis and `Z` as up axis:

![](fig/real-world-elevation/export-settings.png)

Press `Export COLLADA` and save the file somewhere. There should be two files created: the `.dae` and the `.tif` texture.

## 6. Importing to the Gazebo world.

Create a simple `test.world` file with the following content:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<sdf version="1.4">
    <world name="default">
        <include>
            <uri>model://sun</uri>
        </include>
        <model name="myModel">
            <pose>0 0 0 0 0 0</pose>
            <static>true</static>
            <link name="body">
                <visual name="visual">
                    <geometry>
                        <mesh>
                            <uri>file://myModel.dae</uri>
                        </mesh>
                    </geometry>
                </visual>
            </link>
        </model>
    </world>
</sdf>
```

Place the `myModel.dae` and the corresponding `.tif` texture files in the same folder as the `test.world` file.

Finally, run Gazebo with the `test.world` file (you may want to zoom out a bit):

```bash
gazebo test.world
```

![](fig/real-world-elevation/gazebo.png)

Commit message:

updated the real_world_elevation tutorial with info on how to align the world origin

docs/60-simulations/01-gazebo/real_world_elevation.md, after:

---
title: How to create a real world elevation map in Gazebo
---

:::warning
This page is describing the upcoming ROS2 version of the MRS UAV System (however, it may be still outdated). If you are looking for ROS1 version of the docs, follow to https://ctu-mrs.github.io/docs/1.5.0/introduction/.
:::

# How to create a real world elevation map in Gazebo

We will create a 3D model in [Blender](https://www.blender.org/download/) using
[BlenderGIS plugin](https://github.com/domlysz/BlenderGIS) and elevation data from
[opentopography.org](https://opentopography.org/).
We will then export the model as a `.dae` file and a texture as `.tif` to be used in Gazebo.
Finally, we will create a simple Gazebo `.world` to view the created model.

## 1. Getting Blender and the plugin

[Download and install Blender](https://www.blender.org/download/)

[Download BlenderGIS plugin as zip](https://github.com/domlysz/BlenderGIS/archive/refs/heads/master.zip)

In Blender, go to `Edit` -> `Preferences` -> `Add-ons` -> `Install` and select the downloaded zip file

![](fig/real-world-elevation/blender-preferences.png)

The plugin should now appear in the addons list. Make sure it's enabled (checkbox is checked).

![](fig/real-world-elevation/plugin.png)

## 2. Creating the textured plane

Once the plugin is installed, you should see the **GIS** button available. Press it, then select `Web geodata` -> `Basemap`

![](fig/real-world-elevation/basemap.png)

You can change the source (for example to use Bing maps) if you want. Press `OK`.

The 2D map view should appear. You can drag the map and zoom to go the location you want, or you can press `G` to then enter a specific location.

![](fig/real-world-elevation/goto.png)

Once you're satisfied with the location and zoom level, press `E` to create a new plane with the texture applied to it.

![](fig/real-world-elevation/textured-plane.png)

## 3. Aligning the map to the correct coordinates


By default, the map's origin will typically not be at the lattitude/longitude coordinates that you enter using the `G` command.
This would cause the created mesh to be misaligned in Gazebo by some offset.
To fix this, open the **GIS** -> `Web geodata` -> `Basemap` dialog again.
Now, you should see a subdialog `Scene georeferencing` (see below).

Select the `Geo` option and enter the lattitude/longitude coordinates of your world origin (this are the same numbers you will put into your Gazebo world's `spherical_coordinates` tag).
This will move Blender's origin to these lat/lon coordinates so that the mesh is aligned when you import it to gazebo.

![](fig/real-world-elevation/georeferencing.png)

Note that if you use GPS in your Gazebo simulation and you move the world's origin, you also need to set the `simulated_rtk` parameter of `mrs_uav_px4_api` via a custom config (see [here](https://github.com/ctu-mrs/mrs_uav_px4_api/blob/master/config/px4_api.yaml)).

## 4. Adding elevation data

To import the elevation data, we use OpenTopography API. We will need an API key to feed into the plugin. It's free.

Got to [OpenTopography](https://portal.opentopography.org/login?redirect=%2FlidarAuthorizationInfo%3Fs%3Dapi)

Create an account. Select Affiliation: **Academia**, Organization: **Czech Technical University in Prague**.

Then login with the created account. You should see the API key [here](https://portal.opentopography.org/lidarAuthorizationInfo?s=api)

Now in Blender, **select the plane object we've created.**

Go to `GIS` -> `Web geodata` -> `Get elevation (SRTM)`. Enter the API key and press `OK`. This takes some time.
![](fig/real-world-elevation/elevation.png)

## 5. Adjusting the elevation

Usually we want to adjust our map model so that its origin is at zero. To do that we:

Apply the modifiers: select the plane object, press `Ctrl+A` and select `Apply` -> `Visual Geometry to Mesh`
![](fig/real-world-elevation/apply-modifiers.png)

Now, because the plugin is creating a plane based on the screen ratio, the plane will not be a perfect rectangle. What we can do is:

- Select the plane
- Go to the edit mode
- Select the top view
- Select a vertex that is the closest one to the origin
  ![](fig/real-world-elevation/closest-point.png)
- Now we can see its global coordinates. We want to move all of our vertices so that this point moves to the origin.
  ![](fig/real-world-elevation/location.png)
- To do that we can copy the `X` position, then select **all vertices** (`a`), then subtract the copied value from the median's `X`:
  ![](fig/real-world-elevation/move-all-X.png)
- Repeat the same for the `Y` and `Z`.

## 6. Exporting the model

We export our model as Collada `.dae` file. Select the plane object, go to `File` -> `Export` -> `Collada (.dae)`.

![](fig/real-world-elevation/export.png)

Check `Selection Only`, check `Global Orientation` -> `Apply`, and select `X` as forward axis and `Z` as up axis:

![](fig/real-world-elevation/export-settings.png)

Press `Export COLLADA` and save the file somewhere. There should be two files created: the `.dae` and the `.tif` texture.

## 7. Importing to the Gazebo world.

Create a simple `test.world` file with the following content:

```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<sdf version="1.4">
    <world name="default">
        <include>
            <uri>model://sun</uri>
        </include>
        <model name="myModel">
            <pose>0 0 0 0 0 0</pose>
            <static>true</static>
            <link name="body">
                <visual name="visual">
                    <geometry>
                        <mesh>
                            <uri>file://myModel.dae</uri>
                        </mesh>
                    </geometry>
                </visual>
            </link>
        </model>
    </world>
</sdf>
```

Place the `myModel.dae` and the corresponding `.tif` texture files in the same folder as the `test.world` file.

Finally, run Gazebo with the `test.world` file (you may want to zoom out a bit):

```bash
gazebo test.world
```

![](fig/real-world-elevation/gazebo.png)
