docs/40-api/22-custom_real_world_file.md, before:

---
title: Custom Real World File
pagination_label: Custom Real World File
description: How to create a custom real world file for the MRS system to fly in a new location
---

:::warning
This page is describing the upcoming ROS2 version of the MRS UAV System (however, it may be still outdated). If you are looking for ROS1 version of the docs, follow to https://ctu-mrs.github.io/docs/1.5.0/introduction/.
:::

# Frames of Reference

As described in the [Frames of Reference](./20-frames_of_reference.md) manual, the MRS system offers a flexible way to define the coordinate frames used in the system. This is enabled using geographical libraries in the real-world that map from latitude-longitude coordinates to the local Cartesian coordinate system. The MRS system uses the [GeographicLib](https://geographiclib.sourceforge.io/) library to handle these transformations.

# Custom Real World File

An example real world file is shown below. The file is divided into two main sections: `world_origin` and `safety_area`. The `world_origin` section defines the origin of the local Cartesian coordinate system. The `safety_area` section defines the safety area around the origin. The safety area is defined by a polygon in the horizontal plane and by the maximum and minimum heights in the vertical plane.


```bash
world_origin:

  units: "LATLON" # {"UTM, "LATLON"}

  origin_x: 50.0764041
  origin_y: 14.4180359

safety_area:

  enabled: true

  horizontal:

    # the frame of reference in which the points are expressed
    frame_name: "latlon_origin"

    # polygon
    #
    # x, y [m] for any frame_name except latlon_origin
    # x = latitude, y = longitude [deg]  for frame_name=="latlon_origin"
    points: [
      50.0765653, 14.4178914,
      50.0762102, 14.4179722,
      50.0763015, 14.4181847,
      50.0765825, 14.4181411,
    ]

  vertical:

    # the frame of reference in which the max&min z is expressed
    frame_name: "world_origin"

    max_z: 8.0
    min_z: 1.0
```

## Choice of coordinate system

There are two choices available for the coordinate system in the real world file: `LATLON` and `UTM`. The `LATLON` system uses latitude and longitude coordinates, while the `UTM` system uses the Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) coordinate system. The choice of coordinate system is made by setting the `units` parameter in the `world_origin` section.

For example, the latitude and longitude for our university yard can be specified as ```50.076408, 14.418019``` in the `LATLON` system. The same point can be specified as ```458357.390, 5547288.346``` in the `UTM` system.

This origin leads to the definition of a plane which converts from either `LATLON` or `UTM` to the local cartesian plane with co-ordinates in meters.


## Safety Area

Safety area is a polyhedron defined by vertically extruding a polygon to mark an area outside which the UAV should not fly. When specified and enabled, the system prevents ```goto``` commands and ```trajectory_references``` from taking the UAV outside the safety area. 

This area can either be defined in co-ordinate frames such as `local_origin` or `world_origin` which uses the origin specified in the world to define the polygon in meters, or in ```latlon_origin``` which uses the latitude and longitude to define the polygon.

To define a new polygon, simply add the co-ordinates of the vertices in the `points` parameter. Order the co-ordinates in a clockwise or anti-clockwise manner to define the polygon. The last point is connected to the first point to close the polygon.

The vertical limit of the safety area can **only** be defined in meters by specifying the `max_z` and `min_z` parameters. The `max_z` parameter specifies the maximum height, while the `min_z` parameter specifies the minimum height. When a UAV is initialised, its altitude is set to zero, and is further incremented/decremented based on sensors like `GNSS | Laser altimeter | Barometer`, and therefore, the UAV might intend to land below its takeoff altitude. To enable autonomous operations in these cases, `min_z` can be set to a negative value to allow the UAV to land below its takeoff altitude.

Commit message:

Include description for set of world origin service in world file section

docs/40-api/22-custom_real_world_file.md, after:

---
title: Custom Real World File
pagination_label: Custom Real World File
description: How to create a custom real world file for the MRS system to fly in a new location
---

:::warning
This page is describing the upcoming ROS2 version of the MRS UAV System (however, it may be still outdated). If you are looking for ROS1 version of the docs, follow to https://ctu-mrs.github.io/docs/1.5.0/introduction/.
:::

# Frames of Reference

As described in the [Frames of Reference](./20-frames_of_reference.md) manual, the MRS system offers a flexible way to define the coordinate frames used in the system. This is enabled using geographical libraries in the real-world that map from latitude-longitude coordinates to the local Cartesian coordinate system. The MRS system uses the [GeographicLib](https://geographiclib.sourceforge.io/) library to handle these transformations.

# Custom Real World File

An example real world file is shown below. The file is divided into two main sections: `world_origin` and `safety_area`. The `world_origin` section defines the origin of the local Cartesian coordinate system. The `safety_area` section defines the safety area around the origin. The safety area is defined by a polygon in the horizontal plane and by the maximum and minimum heights in the vertical plane.


```bash
world_origin:

  units: "LATLON" # {"UTM, "LATLON"}

  origin_x: 50.0764041
  origin_y: 14.4180359

safety_area:

  enabled: true

  horizontal:

    # the frame of reference in which the points are expressed
    frame_name: "latlon_origin"

    # polygon
    #
    # x, y [m] for any frame_name except latlon_origin
    # x = latitude, y = longitude [deg]  for frame_name=="latlon_origin"
    points: [
      50.0765653, 14.4178914,
      50.0762102, 14.4179722,
      50.0763015, 14.4181847,
      50.0765825, 14.4181411,
    ]

  vertical:

    # the frame of reference in which the max&min z is expressed
    frame_name: "world_origin"

    max_z: 8.0
    min_z: 1.0
```

## Choice of coordinate system

There are two choices available for the coordinate system in the real world file: `LATLON` and `UTM`. The `LATLON` system uses latitude and longitude coordinates, while the `UTM` system uses the Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) coordinate system. The choice of coordinate system is made by setting the `units` parameter in the `world_origin` section.

For example, the latitude and longitude for our university yard can be specified as ```50.076408, 14.418019``` in the `LATLON` system. The same point can be specified as ```458357.390, 5547288.346``` in the `UTM` system.

This origin leads to the definition of a plane which converts from either `LATLON` or `UTM` to the local cartesian plane with co-ordinates in meters.


It's possible to change the world origin after the system has been started by using the service [`estimation_manager/set_world_origin`](./01-uav_ros_api.md#estimation-manager). The service accepts the same parameters as defined in the `world_origin` section of the real world file (latlon or utm coordinates), allowing for dynamic reconfiguration of the coordinate system during operation. 


## Safety Area

Safety area is a polyhedron defined by vertically extruding a polygon to mark an area outside which the UAV should not fly. When specified and enabled, the system prevents ```goto``` commands and ```trajectory_references``` from taking the UAV outside the safety area. 

This area can either be defined in co-ordinate frames such as `local_origin` or `world_origin` which uses the origin specified in the world to define the polygon in meters, or in ```latlon_origin``` which uses the latitude and longitude to define the polygon.

To define a new polygon, simply add the co-ordinates of the vertices in the `points` parameter. Order the co-ordinates in a clockwise or anti-clockwise manner to define the polygon. The last point is connected to the first point to close the polygon.

The vertical limit of the safety area can **only** be defined in meters by specifying the `max_z` and `min_z` parameters. The `max_z` parameter specifies the maximum height, while the `min_z` parameter specifies the minimum height. When a UAV is initialised, its altitude is set to zero, and is further incremented/decremented based on sensors like `GNSS | Laser altimeter | Barometer`, and therefore, the UAV might intend to land below its takeoff altitude. To enable autonomous operations in these cases, `min_z` can be set to a negative value to allow the UAV to land below its takeoff altitude.
